Let's start with the answer to the most important question first: What is Power BI actually? If you
look at the home page, you can find the following text:
So Power BI is a suite of Business Analytics tools.
It allows you to work on data, to create reports, to publish these reports and a lot more.
This sounds really great but we have to take a closer look at that
to really understand how this works.
So we already know that Power BI is not a single tool but consists of multiple tools.
Additionally we have that building blocks,
let's see what that is.
The first tool is Power BI Desktop, the local application only available on Windows. In Power BI Desktop,
we have the first building block - the datasets.
Now what is a dataset?
A dataset simply describes the data or the information that you have in your data model.
You can either connect Power BI Desktop to predefined datasets - so you simply import the data into the
data model and then you're done
or you can create your own datasets.
This would mean that you connect Power BI Desktop to different source files in so-called queries,
we will talk about that throughout the course, and then work on those queries. As soon as you finished your work,
you will then load that newly created structure into the data model and by that, have your own dataset.
Now in both cases, you are not done right here because you want to visualize your data, right?
To do this you need the second building block, the visualizations. A visualization is simply a chart or
a table, so everything that visualizes your data. With the visualizations
we have the third building block, the tiles.
Tiles are simply the area of your visualizations,
so kind of the frame around it.
You can change the height or the width and the position of the tiles just as you prefer.
The only limitation is the space on your report page. Reports?
Yes, we also have reports in Power BI Desktop and reports are the fourth building block.
You can simply create multiple pages with different visualizations just as you prefer.
Well and the summary
or the combination of the pages,
this is the report. So this is Power BI Desktop.
You can create datasets and visualize the data in visualizations and the combination of multiple visualizations
on multiple pages,
this is the report then. Now the second tool is Power BI Service.
This is a cloud application, and by that not limited to Windows only, which allows you to share your results
and to collaborate in your projects with your colleagues.
But if you look at the different building blocks, we can see that those are equal to the ones that we
just saw in Power BI Desktop.
Now what's the difference?
Power BI Service can of course be connected to different datasets but the creation of that own
datasets
we just talked about in Power BI Desktop, so the connection to different source files,
then the work on those queries and by that the creation of that new structure that you then load into your
data model,
this is not possible in Power BI Service. So Power BI Service is the tool to connect to existing datasets,
Power BI Desktop is the tool to create new datasets in.
That's an important difference.
However as we can connect Power BI Service to those existing datasets and also to that created datasets
in Power BI Desktop of course, we can also create visualizations and reports. But the functionality of
the creation of the visualizations and of the reports,
well we know that from Power BI Desktop already, right?
So we will not create visualizations and reports in Power BI Service
in that course, we will learn how this works in Power BI Desktop. And the functionality and the interface,
as I said when it comes to the creation of the visualizations, is the same between those two tools.
Now what else can we do in Power BI Service then?
Well, we talked about that sharing and collaborating and we will learn how this works
but there is one additional building block that is only available in Power BI Service and those are the
dashboards.
Now what is a dashboard?
Well when we talk about a dashboard, simply think about a cover page,
so one single page which summarizes the key facts of your report.
This is the dashboard, so this first page you see. If you want to dive deeper, then you can jump into the
report and get more information about your data.
So this is the second tool,
this sharing collaborating tool with the creation of the dashboards.
Let's quickly summarize what we've learned so far:
We have Power BI Desktop,
the local application,
where we can create our datasets, our visualizations and our reports.
We then publish that information to Power BI Service,
the cloud solution. In there, we can also collaborate with colleagues
for example if we want or add dashboards to our existing data. So we have the data in the cloud.
If we now use the third tool, Power BI Mobile, a mobile app as the name says, this will allow us to access
the data that we loaded to Power BI Service from our mobile devices and we will also take a look at Power BI
Mobile of course and see how this app works and what we can do with it.
So those are the three core tools of Power BI that we need and that we'll talk about in detail throughout
the course but we will show you more.
We will show you Power BI for Developers also. Power BI for Developers is made to customize your Power BI
experience.
This means you can create your own customized visuals and you will see how this works throughout the course
and you can also embed your Power BI results into your own existing apps with Power BI Embedded, something
that is rather related to your own app and not directly connected to Power BI.
Because of that, we will not cover this topic as part of this course.
However with that Power BI for Developers block, we now have an overview of the entire Power BI universe
that we will talk about throughout that course.
And now I think its time that we start with our first little project,
right?
Let's do this and let's start with the first tool -
Power BI Desktop, the local application.
Well and to work with this local application, we first have to download and install it.
Let's do this in the next video.